This is Jocco podcast number 99.
With echo Charles and me, Jocco Winlink.
Good evening, I go.
Good evening.
It is a day for Q&A.
Let's go.
Right into it.
All right, let's do it.
Jocco, hey, Jocco.
As a director of our sales department,
I require my guys to fill out sales call interaction logs.
I have one guy who thinks because the sales are up.
This no longer is important.
Nor does he have the time.
How do you handle situations like this?
OK, so as I got this question, I'm like,
OK, I've answered this before.
I'm not going to answer it again.
I've gotten something close enough.
And no one's interesting.
I talked to some people now.
I talked to a lot of people and they say, hey, on Q&A,
I know what you're going to say.
Yeah.
I don't know how to say that.
That's awesome.
They say I still need to hear it.
But I know what you're going to say.
And I said, OK, cool, that's good.
That means people are starting to expand their brain a little bit,
maybe see a different perspective that they might not
had before.
So that's good in my opinion.
Now, also what I realize is, as I answer these questions,
there's additional information that comes out
once you make a certain level of understanding,
then there's more understanding to be had.
And so that's what I realized with this question.
As I thought, well, OK, there's this standard answer.
The standard answer is, OK, that you got people
who are not doing what you want them to do.
And what do you do then?
Well, the fact is, the real standard answer
that everybody now knows, if you've been listening to podcasts,
is they need to know why they're doing what they're doing,
they need to know why it's important.
They need to know how them filling out those forms
will help the company and therefore help the individual
that needs to fill out the forms, because it'll
provide better intel to the company that will provide them
more accurate advertising which will in turn make them
be able to sell more, which will in turn make the cost
to produce the product go down, because they're selling more.
And that means he has better pricing to sell things
with an ill-being able to sell more and make more money.
And so you have to tie that whole thread through.
That's kind of the standard answer.
Which everybody should know.
If someone's not doing what you want them to do,
you need to make sure they understand
why they need to do it, why it's important
and how it ties back to them.
OK, so boom, we get done with that standard answer.
Now there's the next level.
Now we're going to purple belt.
And here's the non-standard answer.
Here's the advanced answer, or the purple belt answer.
Is OK, now let's ask yourself, this piece of paper
that you're having them fill out.
Is it really actually important?
Is it actually important?
What purpose does it actually serve?
Because you want this guy who's a good producer, his sales
are up.
And you want him to continue to fill out these sales
interaction logs so that you can track and make sure
that he's making enough calls that he's got
to write the right approach that he's using the right
verbage when he's talking to his customers or clients.
And so you want him to fill this up.
But now he's actually doing well.
And you got to ask yourself, OK, what purpose
is this thing serving now that the guy is doing well,
what purpose is it serving?
Maybe at a certain level, you say, you know what?
You don't need to fill that out anymore.
If you sell 10 units a day, you don't need to fill this
out anymore.
If you sell 80 day, you got to fill out your logs,
because we got to check and see what you're doing.
That's, or are you just making this person do it?
Because that's what everyone does.
So if you can't answer the question yourself,
why it's important, then maybe you should check
why you have this thing in place.
So again, we put things in place to help people,
but at a certain point, it is possible that they don't need
to do it anymore.
Some sales people, if you don't maybe want people
to make eight phone calls a day and you want them
to log down what they did.
OK, what if this guy's doing 28 phone calls a day?
And he wants to get to 38 phone calls a day,
but he can't, because he's filling out your paperwork.
OK, so if people are meeting the numbers,
maybe raise the bar a little bit, make him,
and you give him more freedom.
He's got the self-discipline, right?
He's got the discipline to make call.
He's making the numbers.
His numbers are up.
OK, give him some more freedom.
Maybe you can turn that into more production.
If he starts to lag off, guess what?
Hey, bud, if you keep selling 10 units a day,
we're good.
You don't need to fill out this crap.
You go to nine.
You're back on the filling out of paperwork.
Guess what he's going to do?
He's going to sell 10 every day, he's going to sell 12.
He's going to sell 15.
Yeah.
And then I would tell him, I'd say, look, if you sell 15 units a day,
I'm going to fill out a piece of paperwork
that says you're awesome.
I'm going to do it every time you sell 15 units.
It's good.
Boom, little fun.
Yeah, yeah.
So that's it.
There's the white, maybe three-stripe white belt answer.
Everyone should know at this point, followed by a little bit more advanced,
purple belt move, whom we'll plot a.
Sure.
And the same time that's not to say that it's guaranteed, not important.
Not at all.
You're just saying, make that evaluation.
And there is a chance that I'm wrong, right?
That the paperwork that gets filled out actually really does get put into a
data file that can then be used to target certain customers,
or follow up with certain customers.
And if that's the fact you explain it to the guy and how it's going to benefit him.
And we're back to answer number one, which worked.
Which is fine.
Right and wrong.
Right and wrong are interesting concepts.
Yeah.
And people sometimes get wrapped around right and wrong.
They just think that there's a right answer and there's a wrong answer.
And many times, neither question or neither answer is right or wrong,
or both answers are right and wrong.
Yeah.
So you've got to open your mind on these things.
You've got to open your mind.
You know, as we talk about with GJ2 schools,
should a GJ2 school be strict,
bow to your professor,
everyone where they same uniform,
not allowed to ask people to roll,
or should it be, hey, where would whatever you want,
the instructors named Jocco,
and going there and crews in train hard.
Which one is right?
The answers that are both right.
You both of those have benefits.
And some people flourish in one kind of school,
and some people flourish in another kind of school,
and you can't say one's right or wrong.
Same thing I used to run in this lot with in the shield things with tactics.
Like should we enter the room like this,
or like this?
And the answer is actually,
well, which is better in that scenario.
And sometimes this one's better,
and sometimes that one's better.
And so if your mind can be more open,
you'll be able to use more options,
which is beneficial.
Yeah.
That's the narrow kind of reminded me of one of my friends,
it was a friend of a friend.
And it was actually my friend's friend's life.
And she was saying,
yeah, she's kind of making light of the fact that they force their kids
to watch a charger game or something on this day or whatever.
And the kids don't like football,
or the kid, the one kid.
Don't like, doesn't like football, doesn't like watching football.
Doesn't like this whole thing.
And she was like, oh no, it's a tradition, you know?
So, you know, we make them do it.
It's a tradition all the stuff.
I'm kind of thinking, like, okay, I mean, that's cool.
That it's like your tradition, but like no one likes it.
Like so what is the tradition doing?
I mean, I understand, like if you have a tradition,
everyone likes it, or the tradition,
and it improves, like, I don't know, the cohesion of the family
or something like that.
And, you know, for all these beneficial reasons,
and one way or another beneficial.
But, you know, if you're doing it just for the sake of, you know,
the tradition, like this paperwork situation.
And also, what are you doing?
If you're telling your kid, like, no, you'll watch the football game,
especially now that everyone hates the chargers,
because they left San Diego.
Yeah, this is one time ago, but, but,
if you tell your kid, hey, no, it's a time for our family to get together.
And you don't got to watch the game,
but hang out, we're going to have some hot dogs.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And we're just, that's what it is.
It's not about staring at the screen, watching something that you don't like.
Yeah.
It's about hanging out, you know, grandma's coming over,
yeah.
On teas coming over, we're going to cruise, we're going to eat,
Barbara, keep chicken, right?
Yep.
That's different.
Then hey, you sit down and watch the football game.
Yeah.
But when kids reach a certain age, they don't want to hang out with you.
First, certain time period.
That's what started my whole argument right there.
Yeah.
Well, not it wasn't our argument, but that's what started my little discourse.
And so, certain time period your children are supposed to rebel against you.
Yeah.
Somewhat, because they have to convince themselves and their mind that they,
they, they're going to leave and they're going to be on their own.
And, and something in their mind triggers that to be like,
okay, I need to separate myself from these other humans that have been caring for me.
Yeah.
Because I was wearing diapers.
And now I need to get that out of my head and figure out how to survive on my own.
So they, they do that by rebelging against you.
And so, I don't want to see this stupid football game.
I want to go to my friend Mary's house.
Yeah.
We're going to do something over there.
Right?
That's, you know, you think that there's an element of like a prayer.
You know how like when you're a kid and you hit like 13, 12, 13 years old,
you start to get this like empowered feeling, you know,
because you're like physically kind of growing up.
And then your parents are kind of, you have this feeling of oppression.
Not that your parents are the problems.
Things are totally, that's exactly what I'm saying.
So you, I'm like, it's like an actual rebellion.
You can oppress me no more.
I don't have to ride with you.
You know, I don't have to walk with you in the wall.
No, I'm out.
Yeah.
And you're trying to do that because you realize subconsciously that these people are not going to be here.
I need to learn how to fend for myself.
I need to get out of the nest.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Get out of the nest.
They're flapping them wings.
But yeah.
Exactly.
But the tradition, just for the sake of the tradition,
because actually my whole argument with the lady was that he was trying to not necessarily prove,
but try to find out whether or not she even thought about it.
Like why you can make you do it.
My point is that there are traditions that are important, right?
With an family, with an culture.
But if you lose fact, if you lose, if you don't understand the meaning of the tradition,
yeah, then it doesn't make sense to you.
Yeah.
So then you don't care about it.
Look, this is our family, and this is when we get together this the only time.
It's a tradition.
Yes.
So we're going to do it.
And that way we get to know each other.
And that way we keep connected.
You know, we can help each other.
Collision.
Next question.
Jockel, as a leader, at what point am I allowed to go to others and say,
I need you because I recognize I'm not capable of pushing toward forward on my own.
Or should that be an instance where I need to take a step back and apply more discipline to my life?
Find a way to push forward by myself.
Okay.
You are allowed to say that to your team member immediately that you need them.
Absolutely.
If you, of course, you need your team because if you didn't need your team, why would they be there?
Yeah.
If you, if you can do everything yourself, then you don't have a team.
Right?
You just do everything yourself.
So while you, of course, should be working already, you should be applying discipline.
As a leader, it's your job to actually lead things and to let other people support and make things happen.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
And also, you don't want to be stuck in the weeds doing my new things.
So if you're not capable, I think what might be holding this individual back.
There's two things.
Number one is I feel like I should take extreme ownership of everything.
I feel like I should do everything myself.
That is not what extreme ownership is.
Extreme ownership isn't doing everything yourself.
And also what can come into play is your ego.
Because you don't want to ask people for help.
And that's not a good sign.
There's nothing wrong with asking people for help.
If you need it, in fact, that's the humble thing to do.
Hey, Echo.
I don't know how to, quite finish out this, you know, this thing up.
This project can work out.
Can you give me a hand with this?
I don't know how to work a video recorder.
Can you show me how to do that?
Right?
Whatever.
So there's no problem with that. You're allowed to ask.
You can, you can say that immediately.
In fact, your team should feel that you are counting on them and relying on them.
They should know that.
And then, but you're ego aside, ask for help.
No problem.
That doesn't mean you're giving away, that doesn't mean you're not taking ownership.
That doesn't mean you're not applying discipline.
It means you're working as a team together to accomplish mission.
Again, if a, if a, if a mission is so easily that you can accomplish it yourself,
you don't need a team. Why do you have them?
If you can do it all yourself just by applying discipline.
Cool.
You don't need anyone else.
If your, but your mission should be larger than one human being,
can accomplish.
So that's why you have other people on board to help you out.
Yeah.
No problem.
You know, like, I always think when, when that happens.
I thought we made it out of that question.
Go ahead.
No, but you know, like, let's say it's like something that's just a pain in the ass.
And you don't really need help, but you just don't want to do it by yourself.
Oh, okay.
We don't think.
Then yeah, then you gotta do that yourself.
Yes.
Yeah.
So that's kind of where this is coming from ultimately because it's like,
I'm not saying that if you're the, if you're, if you have a position in a company,
where you shouldn't be doing some sort of task because it's not financially efficient to have,
you know, a person that's making a, a hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year,
doing a task that someone that's making ten dollars an hour should be doing.
So, so you shouldn't do that.
That's not what I'm advocating and a company won't, won't be doing well.
Yeah.
If you're paying people, $150,000 a year that you could get someone to do for ten dollars an hour.
I'm not saying that.
So don't get me wrong.
Yeah.
But that's why we have a team so that you can focus on going forward and whatever it is,
you need to be focused on and somebody that's below you in the chain and command,
that's a member of your team that's getting paid ten dollars an hour can do some of the stuff that you need him to do.
Yeah.
And the question actually is, is really clear because it's because, quote unquote,
because I recognize I'm not capable of pushing, you know, it's kind of like,
it's obvious to you that you need help.
It's not that you're, you know,
raking leaves and I don't want to do this all by myself.
So, hey, you know, you tell your brother come help me.
It's not that it's different.
Yeah.
And if you need to get the leaves raked and you need them done by Monday,
so you can get them in the bags so that the dump truck can come and take the leaves away.
And you can't physically get it done.
Then you say to your brother, hey, can you give me hand?
And you get these done tonight before the sun goes down.
Yeah.
I'm locking me up to make it in time.
Can you give me a hand?
Yeah.
Your brother says absolutely.
Oh, yeah.
Got your back.
Next wish.
What's the best way to deal with feedback you don't agree with?
My manager give, my manager gives me feedback on my personality.
That I don't agree with.
I'm only in the company five months and he doesn't know enough about me to make the comments he's making.
I find myself wanting,
wanting to contest with what he's saying,
but I believe this will ultimately end poorly for me.
It's frustrating for me to listen to feedback from him about my personality when my friends and family would disagree with him.
Okay.
Again, this is one of those questions that I think people that will snap out.
I think people that will snap out to know what the answer is, what you do when someone's giving you feedback.
As you listen to it and you try and make adjustments.
Get in their head and figure out where this is coming from.
That they're obviously saying this for some reason.
And maybe the reason is because they have a big ego or they don't understand people very well.
And that's fine.
And if you know that then you just learn something about them.
But also you might not know yourself as well as you think you do.
And obviously if you contest with someone saying,
you're going to look like you can't take critiques.
So you're right.
That's not a good approach to take furthermore.
What you're saying is that your friends and family wouldn't agree with this guy.
Well, guess what?
They're your friends and family.
Right?
It's like the dude's mom that, you know, the dude's mom always thinks the dude's handsome.
Yeah.
Dude's not handsome.
But his mom thinks he's handsome and you know, your friends and family think,
oh, I can't believe they'd say it about you.
Well, that's your friends and family.
There's a reason why you have friends because they like you.
Yeah.
Whatever personality is is not cool.
They're over it.
Yeah.
They can deal with it.
Well, this boss, the manager can't deal with it.
He has no idea what they're doing.
So like I said, when someone gives you critique,
you should actually listen to what people have such a hard time with.
Yeah.
And you should actually listen and say, okay, well, maybe I'm too aggressive.
Maybe I'm too close minded.
Whatever, whatever critique point you're getting.
Listen to them.
Maybe someone's like, hey, I don't think you take critique very well.
And you're like, what are you talking about?
Yeah.
Of course I take critique well.
You don't know.
That's my point.
So, and the other thing like I said is in doing this,
the manager is actually telling you something about their personality.
And their views and their judgment.
So learn from that.
Learn what they're, they're teaching you about their personality,
which is going to help you better influence and manipulate and work with.
Work with that person in the future.
And perhaps help make them into a better leader at a better
supporter of what it is that you're trying to do.
So calm down relax.
One of the best things you can do when someone says to you, hey, I think you're
spooning stuff.
Hold on.
Let me grab a notebook.
I just want to take notes and make sure I understand we're coming from
so I can make some adjustments.
I'm always looking to get better.
Yeah.
That might be a little extreme, but you know.
Hold on a second.
Let me get my notebook.
Yeah.
So I can take notes because I want to get better.
Well, I overdid that just a little bit.
But not some people, some people they'll take notes.
You know how like for you, but they like take taking notes.
I feel good.
When I was running the West Coast Seal training, the good officers,
like there would be some officers when I'd be putting out work to them.
They'd be taking notes.
Yeah.
And I was, you know, when I first saw it, it was kind of like,
surprised me.
Yeah.
Okay.
This guy's straight up taking notes.
And what I'm telling is that one on one conversation,
he's sending the like taking notes.
Yeah.
So, but if you said it with your tone, we like,
Hold on.
Oh, Joch was going to say something.
And you get out my notebook.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
That's sarcastic.
But there's also not just being sarcastic.
I was leaning towards more like the brown noiser.
Oh, that guy.
Oh, echo.
You're going to give me some feedback.
Hold on one second.
I want to get my notes out.
So I can make sure I do exactly what you're telling me to do.
Thanks, buddy.
Yeah.
I see again with the tone.
I think, you know,
tones that a little way.
Middle ground.
I think.
Yeah.
I think pointed out on Twitter,
something about tone and body language in some psychological
survey makes up more than half of what it is actually being said.
Yeah.
And I heard that too.
And I was like, yeah, that sounds cool.
But I mean, you know, maybe maybe not.
Because if someone says something, it's pretty clear.
But then I, it's kind of stuck with me.
And it's true.
Like, I could literally say the same, like, I don't know,
10 words to you in all of the things that I've been doing.
I think I've been doing it.
I think pointed out on Twitter, something about tone and body language.
In some psychological,
I say the same, like, I don't know, 10 words to you in all these different tones.
And then it would mean 10 different things.
Oh, for sure.
Like, you can, like,
it's actually baffling and surprising how much we can actually communicate.
Like, if I, if I make a joke to you, like something,
you don't know my level of sarcasm.
You don't know necessarily.
You have to know the person, you know, like,
so there's all these things that that have to be in place for you to effectively
be communicated to.
Yeah.
Like, let's say you over here a conversation in the next room.
Like, you could easily miss the whole point of the conversation,
even though you heard every word.
Because you don't know if they're joking, you don't know if they're serious,
you don't know if one guy's mad, you know, if one guy's getting slid.
And they can take the same exact, or they can say the same exact words,
but they're just saying different things coming from different places.
Yeah.
That's where you end up a lot of communication problems with the email,
where someone emails a joke,
yeah.
Joking about something and then someone takes it seriously.
And next thing, you know,
people are flying off the handle.
Yeah.
I always had that rule in my seal battoons and task duty.
You weren't allowed to joke on the radio.
Yeah.
And the main reason for that rules,
because you don't want other people outside your organization to hear it
and take it the wrong way, same thing.
But it's the same thing with email.
You must know someone really, really, really well.
You better, it's better to keep the sarcastic comments
and just be straightforward and speak plainly
with your email and your communicate with people.
It's a lot easier.
And then even with that,
it's not escaped from this.
Even with that, you could easily come off as like two rigid or two.
Or it's like,
Dang, is this guy, does this guy not like me?
Yeah.
You know, like a jerk, that's your second email.
And he's like, that's why communication is important.
That's why learning how to write well is important.
That's why little words that you put in matter.
Yeah.
And it in the phrases and the sentences.
They matter.
They're like different.
Thus the invention of emojis.
Well, I think you think the emoji.
Yeah, no, you're very into emojis.
I am now.
Yeah.
I sometimes I, I must say that I think you communicate very well
with emojis because even though you don't sometimes use
new words and attacks to me,
I fully understand what you mean by lightning bolt,
lightning bolt, lightning bolt,
rainbow, lightning bolt, thumbs up,
shock up fire.
Shock up fire.
Yep.
Very clear, right?
Yeah.
No, I agree.
I agree with that.
Shock up fire.
I forgot about fire.
You do quite a bit of fire.
Yeah.
The lightning bolt and fire,
I use them in the shock up for sure.
And the rainbow with you, I use the rainbow a lot.
Is it going to lighten up the moon?
What it helps, it seems like a child thing.
I don't like emoticons.
I don't like emojis.
Yeah.
But you're kind of like that in real life too.
No, I know, but it seems like to me it's see.
Yeah.
It's like a kid, maybe your little daughter would do it or something.
It's what my daughter will send me 875 emojis from my wife's phone.
Yeah.
All of them see if she can film me.
And I send back.
Okay.
Yeah.
I love it.
If you know that you're running the risk of something too, like you know like stoic or whatever, you know, like if you if you have to answer question with yes when in whatever the question is, it's a yes or no question and you answer yes affirmatively right.
You'll put yes period and that'll come off as like.
Aw, chocolates like.
I don't know what up with this guy.
I'm serious or something.
You know, instead of yes,
Yeah, it's two exclamation points lightning volt fire
Limbo or something like that that gives away a little bit more like you know you're just like yes
As if you're just looking someone in their eye
Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. You're like that in real life
Most of the time right on anyway lightning bolt fire. Yeah, man. Let's see emojis don't
In there don't overdo it double shocker double shocker. Yeah
What's the highest level of a moji approval you can send me
Three lightning bolts three fires three shockers three rain most
For sure
You know four it's like that's too much like you shouldn't do four for his die-mirty, you know
Oh, plus depends on what I say though. So like if there's if it's a word
Oh
The vowel in the word will they'll be like that that can be infinite
Or what do you like if I put I don't know you know like you'll tell me something exciting and I'll put on an all put
Dang instead of DANG I'll put D
Lorkace a
Debending level of excitement a
That can go infinitely by the way that can spend 20 text messages even over 20 days
And that's how infinite it can be then the first half of the is in lower case the second half of the is are upper case the N
Maybe 10 ends
PG's all capital then you know then so it depends it just depends
But yes, well
Like I said I think you communicate well
But yeah, that sounds on a series note in regards to communication that is effective
You know what I mean you can sense my level of excitement as opposed to cool period
Yeah, no, no, you're you were
You're playing with that real quick
Oh, that's funny
I like
Anyway
Next question if you are ready
Sorry, I'm not all good
I'm gonna good mood. I guess yeah the rainbow of mine
That's nice
Darius jacco speaking of
Lighthearted nice emotions
Darius jacco you just get before
Okay, my my my my my okay jacco what is the difference between extreme ownership versus the easy button
Can you elaborate I just need a little more clarification to connect the dots in my situation okay again
So as a leader yes, of course you are supposed to take ownership of everything extreme ownership of everything
That's what we talk about all the time
But does this mean
That you say I will do this and I will do that and I will do the other thing and I will do everything that the team is supposed to be doing
No, that's that's not what I'm talking about now ownership does mean
That you get things done
You are responsible for making sure things get done that's what ownership is it is our team is in charge of something if our team is in charge of a project and
And we don't get it done it's my fault. It's not anybody else's fault
So that's that's what it is it means you take responsibility when things go wrong
It means you take responsibility for problems and you get them fixed that's definitely ownership
Now the easy button and when I talk about the easy button in a negative way because that's what I'm doing here
It's when your subordinates come to you and say
How should I do this or or what's the best way to execute this or can you
Can you tell me a good plan on on how we should make this happen or even
Hey, there's bad news can you come tell my people
Because I don't really want to do it now if you say yes to those types of things on a regular basis
Then what you're doing is you're actually you're actually stunting the growth of your subordinate leader because instead when you come to me and you say
Hey, Jocke we got this mentioned we got a plan. How do you think we should do it if I say okay?
We should come in from the north you should you know set up over watch position here you should move through the target from this direction
You you didn't learn anything you just took what I told you and said I say
Go come up with your best plan and come back to me and brief me on it and so now
You might be kind of bummed out because you wanted you didn't have one half to do this extra work
But now you got to go do the extra work, but now you're learning and in two or three times you're not even coming to ask me anymore
You're gonna come with a plan and because we already did a psycholopter cycle of you say hey
Here's my plan and we say hey make this adjustment and you come back next time you say here's my plan
I say make this little adjustment and eventually you know to make those adjustments on your own and now you can do it by yourself
And that's what we want I don't want to stunt the growth of my subordinate leaders so I don't want to be an
Easy button
So you're providing the easy button like that's what they're talking about when they see easy button
Yeah, if you want to be that you don't want to be easy button for everybody else and I also
No one's gonna be able to take your job from you which is actually what you want you want
I want to make every one of my subordinate so good that they can take my job from me that means
I can step up and look forward and look out and they can do a better job of handling what they've got a handle and eventually when it's my time to get promoted
I got people to take my place and we're all good
Of course that doesn't mean leave them blind or let them fail don't do that give you want to give them rope
But you don't give them enough rope to hang themselves
You give them enough rope that they maybe get a little not in the rope and it gives a little bit sloppy and you and then you go over to me
Say it's not here. Let me help you get that on tide and now you give them the rope again
So you don't you know in in a in the military
You don't let someone go do a mission that's real where someone's gonna get hurt killed or a mission failure
Because you wanted to not be the easy button. No. You don't do that in the civilian sector
You don't let someone lose a big client or lose a bunch of money or make a mistake that costs a bunch of capital because you didn't want to be the easy button
No, no, I'm now might you let someone make a little mistake
Sure little mistake that costs them a little bit of money. Sure. So they learn a lesson sure
But you know what I'm following your place. You don't let them hang your hang themselves. So that's that
Next question
Dearest
Jocco a
Question for you in the podcast our fire department promotion process has role playing scenarios
And those role playing scenarios I lose points because I'm not outwardly passionate corner quote, you know
I would have to fake it to succeed and I'm not a fake person is this worth it to fake it when seeking promotion
It's not like I'm gonna fake it once I attain the promotion
Okay, this is a very cool question
This question a lot and actually on this guy sent me this question on Facebook. I responded
Very quickly and simply my response was play the game. Yeah, so fake it play the game
And and you know what he wrote back got it. Yeah, so good for him. Yeah, because what everybody I think thinks I'm gonna say is that no
You think yourself no, you don't play the game. You're not gonna get up there and act all passionate about stuff. You're you your hard court no
Yeah, play the game now you because you what you're doing you play the game. You you want to do a good job
And you're doing your job and doing your job doing any job requires some level of
Faking it. Yeah, now does this mean that you're a fake person? No, it means that you're trying to do a good job
Think if every time that your boss came in with a dumb idea and you your reaction was to say that's a dumb idea
Yeah
Is that gonna get you anywhere or every time a customer had an idiot idiot idiot idiotic complaint about something
You were like hey you're an idiot
Yeah, or every time your life said
You know, is this chicken dry and you said it's drier than a piece of cardboard and the Sahara Desert is that is that?
You know, would you would you benefit from that? How would that work out? You would he would not work out?
Well in any of those cases you have to play the game. Yeah have to play the game and I know I know that that's hard and
I'll tell you what I did to get myself over playing the game
I turned it into a game in my head. I was like I'm I'm gonna build a relationship with this boss that I don't like
I'm gonna do it. Yeah, I'm gonna build the best relay. That's my game. I'm gonna become this guy's bro, right?
When I was at Officer Canada school
You gotta do the most ridiculous rules
They have these these rules that you've got to follow that were really annoying
And you know what I did I executed the rules
Hurger and more stringently than than anybody thought was even remotely necessary and had fun with it
I
Played that game I
You know if I've got a peer that may be
Competing with or there's some tension. I'm gonna support them. I'm gonna play the game
That's what I'm saying. You got to play the game now. Does this make me a bad person or a fake person?
No, why because you're doing this the reason you're playing the game the reason you're acting this way is
For benevolent reasons
Right this this guy at the fire department. He's not
Trying to get promoted so that he can you serve the powers and then take over no
He's trying to get into a position where he can better lead and serve and and
Step up and raise young leaders underneath him. That's what you're trying to do you're not trying to sneak into a position
You don't deserve and you're not trying to build relationships
So you can take advantage of people for your own benefit that that would be a fake person
Yeah, in my opinion you're trying to move
But if you're trying to move up and rank so you can do better and you can take care of the troops and you can increase readiness
There's nothing wrong with that and if you don't play the game to set some level
You're not gonna get promoted and guess what then people that played the game that might be less
Less qualified to do that job. They're gonna get the job because you wouldn't play the game your two stubborn your ego is too big
So you got to put that aside and I'll tell you something else
Learn from what you're being told if
If you're showing no passion if you're showing like a zero motion that's bad people will not connect with you
And if they don't connect with you
They don't follow you if they don't connect with you. You're not building relationships with people if you don't have relationships with people
You don't have a good team
So
Show a little bit of passion sometimes you got to fake it. That's fine. You're just a really
Unpassionate person cool show a little bit of passion
Fake it a little bit
Learn it a little bit because it's actually gonna be beneficial
I would love for you to fake it for a little while until you start caring
What like what are you not passionate about?
Are you not passionate about the job?
Are you not passionate about your firefighter about saving people's lives? Are you not passionate about having a square-to-weight apartment?
You of course you're passionate about that stuff otherwise you wouldn't be you wouldn't be sending me a message saying hey
How do I get advanced? How do I do better? Yeah, you are passionate about it
And that's fine. It's good. Um
I say it all the time, you know if you don't have any emotions that you're a robot and robots people don't follow robots
So sometimes you got to show a little bit of that emotion and passion to
Connect with people that's okay. Yeah, don't be scared. Hold me. Yeah, don't be scared. No
Yeah, because that's really the thing right is showing it. Of course you're passionate about but showing it
There's different people there something right and I dig it
I don't always be like showing how fired up I am all the time or whatever in whatever scenario whatever
But you're right that does help
Yeah, like when you want something exciting about it
It's and there's a there's a dichotomy here
Yeah, because there's some people that will show too much emotions. Yeah, and there's some people that will not show enough
So you want to be somewhere balanced in the middle. Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, it's true and I dig it to when because it does feel like faking it because like in football the tradition is like to be fired up on the sidelines
Let's go let's go, we know like that can but probably sometimes you know have the energy for that
Sometimes you're kind of just nervous and you want to focus on what you got to do or whatever
You know, but it's kind of part of the game, you know and and it does help the people around you too
It's like okay, he's fired up. Okay, maybe I'm not fired up now, but he's kind of getting me fired up
You know and it kind of like helps the team yeah, but yeah, so yeah, sometimes it doesn't feel like comfortable to do
Express outwardly, you know, how passionate what it helps plus is fake like faking it
That's like a framing thing too, you know, like yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you frame it like you're faking it versus how you said you're playing the game
Right, you're playing the game because you want to do a better job
Yeah, you want to get promoted. You want to get promoted for the right reasons. Yeah
There's nothing wrong with that. Yeah, that's that. Yeah. That's good. I think if you can kind of bend and stretch yourself in an uncomfortable way
For the end of it, you know, you know, I think where people I think that term of faking it
No one wants to be a fake person right, yes, which which is why you're correct in that the way that's framed
Is I'm being a fake person and
No one wants to be a fake person yeah
At the same time
You have to
Grow and you have to adjust and if you're gonna be in a leadership position you're gonna do things that you don't
That you wouldn't have man. I do that all the time
I mean what I was in a military you know, I worked with people that I you know I've said this before
I go I work with people both belomian the chain command and above me in the chain command that I despise
They never knew it. They don't know who they are right now
Dang
But you know, you got it. Is that make me a fake person? No makes me a professional
Makes me a professional doing my job because I wasn't gonna get let some little personal emotion in mine or some
Oh, that guy's does this and I don't like that so I'm not gonna like him and and now we have an adversary relationship and now I
But got a problem. Yeah, no. I'm playing the game play the game
So what's the line what is the fake person genuinely? Well
I was gonna as you asked me what the line is the line is if you go against what your principles are
You know, so if you've got fundamental principles that they say oh if you want this job
But what we need to do is
Fill out a report about Billy
Saying that he did something wrong that you know he didn't do wrong
Hmm, right then you go no I'm not gonna do that that that that's what that's bad, right?
That's not now you're not just playing the game
Now you're going against your principles of being an honest person about what's happening. Yeah, that's really what it is
Right like the honesty when you're a fake person
So like if someone's like oh I'm faking it or I'm being a fake person. I said a fake person
Like turning on some passion some manufactured passion for the sake of the team and stuff like that that doesn't feel like
You're a fake person the fake person is kind of like you'll sit like someone I don't know for example someone's in the room and you're like hey
You're great that sure it looks great and you're doing a great job
They leave and we like like sucks right bad the reason I'll tell you the difference the reason that someone the reason that you would consider someone and be angry that someone's a fake person is when they are doing it
Because they're doing it for personal benefit
They're they're saying
They're like if if if you were my boss and
I come in and I say hey, I go
I really like your new haircut looks great
I don't really think that
Your haircut looks dumb, but I'm gonna say that anyways and everyone knows that all I want to do is get that next promotion
That's being fake. Yeah, that's being fake
But if I'm saying well, because one of my really doing what I'm doing is I'm I'm making an adaptation
I'm glowing
I'm I'm doing something that I'm uncomfortable with
Because I know it's gonna make me a better leader
Hmm well, that's what I should be doing is trying to become a better leader
Now again if that if if in this whatever organization what you have to do is
Is do something that you don't agree with
And it's it's the wrong thing to do
And you do it anyways well, then then that's that's that's almost a totally different thing
There's that then there's hey, I'm gonna kiss ass
Right, so that I get promoted. It's all about me and that's probably the what we think of the definition of a fake person yeah
Guys
Next question I
Saw a weakness in you
On your latest podcast you seem to overlook the fact that some infant children were raised in
Undiscipline environments with undiscipline parents they grow up having
Modeled these undiscipline examples. I hate the fact that I have gross undiscipline behavior
Solving this is a major priority in my life you have zero idea of what it of what this
Experiences like for me you seem blind to this struggle like a father who would ignore their child's struggle
And offer only the words manna so
This is a good question and I see where
This guy's coming from for sure and I know that it can be very very frustrating to try and become
Discipline and I apologize that I haven't talked about the fact of of what to do
If you come from an undiscipline family or you have undisciplined parents
I haven't really talked about what to do in that situation, but there's a reason that I haven't talked about that before and that is because you don't get
Discipline from your parents
You don't get discipline from your parents from your grandparents from your older brothers and sisters
You don't get discipline from an external source
You have to get it from you that's what self discipline is you get it from yourself you get it from you
so
There's people from every possible background
From no parents to crazy parents to you know drug addicted parents to
Super square to way parents and every where in between on that spectrum that are completely disciplined people
more disciplined than anyone I know
It doesn't come from your parents. You don't inherit it and there's another piece here
It's called ownership right it's called ownership and if you're if you want to blame other people
For the problem and I say this all the time if you don't take ownership of the problem the problem's not gonna get solved
So if you blame your parents for not having raised you in a disciplined environment you're not gonna solve that problem
You're looking at your parents saying if you would have done a better job
Being more disciplined for me. I would be more disciplined now
So that means that means you can't do anything the fact of the matter is it's wrong
You actually can do something and it doesn't matter
What do how your parents raised you and brought you up you can have the discipline you need to decide to do it
So
As long as you're blaming other people. I mean if you blame me for not discussing it you blame me for having zero
Idea what that experience is like you blame your parents for not raising you this way as long as you're blaming other people
As long as you're counting on other people to give you discipline as long as you do that you will not have it
So again, I
I'm sorry I should have made that I should make that more clearly
And I'm trying to make it more clearly now and like my parents
My parents are are good people they had successful careers as
Educators in public schools
And my mom eventually became went into school administration my dad taught
In high school for 30 something years and they were good hardworking people and but I'll tell you they were no
They were no extraordinary preachers of discipline and I'll tell you I had in fact I
I never remember either one of them ever using the term or referring to discipline in any way
You know when actually both my parents worked they both worked a lot my dad was coaching sports and we're doing after school stuff
My mom same thing like we were on our own a bunch
My parents were gone in the morning. We got ourselves to school when we got home in the afternoon. They weren't home
You know, so it wasn't like they were setting up this rigid discipline manner for me, right and
And you can see this with families many many different families
There's families that have kids
That the parents are very disciplined and the kids are wild and out of control sometimes that problem
Attically so right kids that come from really good families, but they get addicted to drugs
lack of discipline
Kids that come from really good families, but they they spin out of control and and go in the wrong direction and there's also the opposite
Which is hey the parents weren't around or the parents were abusive for the parents were drug addicts and and all the
The kid comes out of that and is squared away is awesome
And we saw that all the time the seal teams and I've said that before on this program doesn't matter
It doesn't matter where you're back around is this is what you decide to do
yeah
And I'll tell you another thing. It's not even
From the military like the military requires discipline obviously
But there's plenty of people in the military that don't have it
Right and and many poor many people lose their discipline when they leave the militaries not being imposed on them anymore
So I mean just go look around
I mean being in the military does not make you a discipline person
Being from a discipline family does not make you a discipline person
Being in a discipline group does not make you a discipline person what makes you a discipline-
person is choosing to be disciplined
So
Yeah, and and also as far as telling people the man up
Which you know when someone says how do I
Get up early every day. I say get up early every day. How do I stop eating sugar stop eating sugar
That's the definition of man up
But obviously it's not just men that need discipline in their life. I don't think I use that term
But what I do tell people is to get after it
That's what I tell people to get after it
Yeah, I tell people to do the things that they know they're supposed to do
Right there's things that you know you're supposed to do as a human being
Things that you know are gonna improve your life do those things
There's things that you know are gonna make you a worse person and make your life worse don't do those things
Don't do the things that are making you weaker start doing the things that are gonna make you stronger and
Smarter and faster and healthier and gonna make you a better human being and I'll say the same thing to this guy
You want to be more disciplined get after it
But it and get up early do some kind of workout eat good foods clean your room
Make a list of things that you're supposed to do in your life and then wake up in the morning and do those things
That you put on the list
That's what discipline is
And
No, it is not easy
But you're not gonna get it from anyone else, but you
And it's worth it and it is the thing that is going to bring you freedom
That's the key word right there when you said it's worth it
You know what I think this is what I think I think like in an environment as like how he put it
In undisciplined environment or something like that where he grew up in an undisciplined environment
I don't obviously that's a very vague
Expression right undisciplined environment. Yeah, that coming a lot of different things so a lot of times like when you're
Brought up in a certain environment basically you're kind of taught or or not taught
Like like the value of certain things so if you use like I don't know working out or whatever
Right, so
I'm gonna use myself as an example my dad doesn't athlete
You know
Not a superior athlete, but he was you know he knew like working out was a part of life and stuff like that and
You know in elementary school where doing sports and stuff like that, you know some people
They don't do that at all so when they grew up into adulthood that some people straight up
Have never worked out before never been in the gym and you know so growing up they they were never taught the value of
What work you know does for you? You never taught so they kind of appreciate it
They just simply don't know the value sure they see people with you know, you know
They're in shape where they can do these things and they're very function whatever they see that of course
But they don't have that value. They don't feel that value. They just never learned it
So it can come off as like this thing for other people, you know
Like all that's what other people do kind of things
So they don't understand the value so back to the point in their mind this weird the connection is not made that
It's worth it because they don't know the value of it really
But if you do know the value of it and then you can decide okay, is this worth it?
Is it worth it to wake up every day and in quote unquote get after it for this particular goal or the this particular set of goals?
So that's what it is and I think sure the undisciplined environment
Can maybe provide that but I think you're right. I think that once you're like oh, yeah, that's worth it
Yeah, you know how people they'll find reasons when it's worth it even though they've never experienced like
You know like a person who has a heart attack or something is like and they have kids
Young kids with some they have a heart attack maybe never worked out ever in their life
They have heart attack they almost died. They're like guess what I'm working out every single day
I'm a vegetarian now. Yeah, you know like doing major major changes that they've never even thought about making and they'll do it because they decided
It's worth it and they'll be disciplined. They'll find that discipline real quick no matter how they're trained
As you know they're environment because now you had it's gonna be worth it. That's it
Yeah, and if it's not worth it, you said and that I think is what you develop the value of
Working out the value of but you develop you can develop that from anywhere
That's one of that's but essentially that's certainly developed that from any any you can develop that from from anywhere
Yeah, yeah, you can get it from parents you can get it from yeah exactly right exactly right
But the discipline itself just like I said that's gonna come from you
Your parents can teach it but guess who it has to it's still you it's still you and you can go to the military
To specifically learn discipline when you leave
It's on you who's it yeah exactly right and just like I said like yeah
I know people who were done with the military and are glad they're done with that right they're glad with this waking up early
They're bad they get they've done for six months they're out of shape. They're not doing it productive
It's it's horrible to say yeah, but it happens happens with the military it happens with anything
Yeah, because when kids get out of high school sports
You know, and all of a sudden they don't want enough to do that anymore
I don't have to listen to coach yeah
Crazy don't listen to coach listen to yourself yourself. Yeah
Did determine whether or not it's worth it and I'm telling you that you don't need to determine I'm telling you
It's worth it. Oh, yeah, I'm telling you it is worth it. And you know what you actually know it's worth it
That's why you're asking this question you know it's worth it
You know it's worth it to have discipline, but you think there's an easier way
You think that it's something that people have you think that when jocos alarm clock goes off
It's like oh just like my father taught me I rise and I shine you know like no
It's like the pillow feels soft and comfortable and the alarm clock is banging on my head
And I don't like it, but you know what I know it's worth it to get up and get after it
I know it's worth it and you know it's worth it. Here's the thing though. We all know it's worth it
Is it in a way you're right, but like really though really
I'm gonna be open and honest with you. I don't think that people know it's worth it
I think they know it's worth it like the kind on paper. You know they have a multiple choice question is it worth it?
Yes or no, they'll be like yes. Obviously. I know working out is worth it
But here's the thing. I don't if you don't know if you don't like like having good credit for example
So I never got taught like why
Really my mom said yeah, you should have good credit. That's it. That's the limit to my education on credit
Right, so of course they're below it because they get you know I fall for literally all the tricks
It's self-inflicted and otherwise
Credit gets jammed up so I don't know. I don't know the value. I don't know. I have never experienced the benefits of having good
I don't know the value of the credit. So it really didn't mean much to me really my credit was like junk and I didn't care until I got
Denied for something then I cared you know, but just like if you're never into working out until you're in a specific situation where it shows
But but like this guy that's asking this question and glad he's asking the question. I'm not I'm trying I'm not trying to come off all hard
Um
But he realizes
He realizes the value of discipline because he's saying that he wants it right?
He knows that it's gonna make his life better. Yeah, and and and that's why I think he's he's gotten jammed up
In whatever way we don't know because I don't know him maybe he's gotten unhealthy maybe he's you know
Who knows? Maybe he's gotten his finances jammed up?
What ever the case may be he knows that discipline is better for them him?
He knows that he does know
This isn't a guy that doesn't know yet because sure there's people that don't you know when you're 16 years old
You don't know the value of discipline. You don't know that the what you're at the way you're acting right now
It's gonna affect you in five years. You don't know that you can set yourself you're to hold life up to be pretty awesome
Yeah, you don't know that yet. You're just like worried about where you're going on a Friday night
right? Yeah, so this guy knows
And he wants it and
He's looking for where he can find it and where he can find it is in the mirror. Yeah, that's where it is
So do it brother good luck get on the path and stay on the path
Yeah, and that's gonna be beneficial when you do the I've a stem
harshly maintaining that like not knowing the value is a big is a big thing it's kind of like okay
So back to my credit thing
There is a point at the end where okay, so
You know like I don't know 10 years ago or whatever I I
Repaired my credit I my credit was repaired I went to it was painstaking not fun stuff
But I did it got my credit repaired and now I know the value because as an adult I'm functioning
It's useful now, you know, so now I know the value of having good credit because I've been through all the things that
Having good credit
Bring you through you know now I'm thinking I'll never go back to bed, okay, never it's what that every single day
I'm telling you that I agree with what you're saying yeah, I agree with what you're saying
I'm saying that this guy knows the value and that's why he wants it
Yeah, it's like when you freak realize that you got denied for something and you were like oh
That oh credit has value I understand that yeah something happened in his life where he said discipline has value
I know that now, but you did credit repair
And and what you said was okay, I need to go out and repair my credit you didn't say hey, you know what my mom didn't tell me about bad credit now
I have bad credit. Yeah, so now what am I supposed to do you know who repaired your credit? Who repaired your credit?
It was a combination of my wife and I but yeah, but who repaired your credit? Yeah, we did it. Yeah, we did this
You took responsibility for it and said okay, I'm gonna get my credit for you. You talked to you
Life because she's smarter than you. She was like hey, I will I will help this but it was you that said okay, I got to get this fixed and you got help
But you knew to reach out for help
But you're the one that ultimately is responsible for yeah, you're right about that like I didn't like
And it blame my parents and then continue
I mean that good right right like you said no I got to get value this this thing has credit has value
I need to fix it yeah, and you fixed it yeah, regardless the way I came from regardless
So what oh, you know, oh, you don't know how to work out cool then you go higher personal trainer because you know it's gonna it's the right thing to do
You know what I mean? Oh, you don't know how to repair your finances cool go get a counselor that's gonna help you repair your finances
Oh, you're addicted to drugs or alcohol. Okay. I'm gonna go find a counselor or join a group so I can get through that thing
Yeah, no one's gonna hold your hand and bring you into any of those situations you gotta do yourself you gotta have the discipline to make it happen
Number seven good morning
Did you find that people in the military mock those that emphasize the importance of good leadership
Who take leading and our responsibility seriously? What does that mean mocking like
Big fun of you. Yeah, like what people in the military making making fun of you
Because you take leadership super seriously. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, this is a nice go. This is an interesting question. So it makes me a little bit nervous
Because my suspicion is that this individual might be going about being a good leader the wrong way
And if you go about it the wrong way people can take offense to it if you're the guy that goes around telling everyone that you're a leader
And you're trying to be great leader people will take offense to that
But you can't make that part of your thing right
People that talk about the importance of good leadership right they come across as implying that they are a good leader
and and
That can be offensive especially if you aren't quite as good of a leader as you think you are
She ran around like you understand how important leadership is
Like just think about that statement right there you understand the importance of leadership echo
I'll all of a sudden I'm basically telling you like I'm a good leader and you're not right when the reality is just the way I'm talking
proves that I'm not a good leader
Because I'm talking down to you
So we have a problem right there and also
If you
Take leading and our leading responsibility seriously. What does that actually mean?
Does that mean that you can't have any fun with your team?
Does that mean you can't laugh at yourself when you've made a mistake?
Does that mean that you are trying so hard to give off the impression that you are a great leader that it appears to everyone else that you aren't
Really who you act like and that your character is is disingenuous
Right if I'm if I'm constantly trying to put up this front that I'm the great leader everyone starts looking at me thinking that guy's not even
That's not that's not the real him. He's just trying to rock around like a like a
He's not true right you think about that you're trying to build trust it and as a leader
We we're trying to build trust we talked you can dick winters talking about honesty being the most one of the most important traits
of a leader but if we're putting up a facade and how we act that does not come across as honest
And that doesn't build trust in fact it builds the opposite and
Also if if if you have to put up a leadership front
If you have to put up a leadership front if in other words if sometimes you have to act a certain way
Fake it going back to something earlier if you have to act and fake like a leader that means you might be
You might be insecure about your leadership capability and you will come across as insecure and people
Consents that insecurity so that can be very problematic
Also if you're so into being a good leader
That probably means that you have issues
Giving up the reins
That means that you are probably micro managing
Because you want to be a leader you want to prove everyone that you're a good leader and so you start micro managing and
No one wants to follow a micro manager. They don't want to do that
And if you add
All these things together
What what do people end up doing
They end up mocking you
They end up mocking the things that you think are important like leadership itself
They start to make fun of it
It's
The it's like the needle I think its name is
Needle myor in animal house
Is this the right name?
I don't know I've got a kind of a movie reference
Yeah, I don't know if you do this is messed up
I like you can give you the John blue sheet. That's all
So there's it's like the leader the the ROTC guy. Yeah, he's a guy that's like Mr. Leader
And everyone makes fun of him. Yeah, he's trying to be a great leader. He's trying to be the
Aforetative figure everyone is making fun of him
So you have to be careful in this case
I would recommend
You move to the center a little bit more meaning that on the one hand you have a leader that isn't building relationship isn't building trust
Expects people to do is they are told and and treat treat that leader with respect to even though they haven't earned it
That's not a good leader on the other hand. You have leaders that are too close with the troops has
Very personal relationships two personal
Relationships with the team and has lost any semblance of authority over the team
So there's your two extremes you want to be balanced in the middle
You want to build relationships with your people you want to build your team up
And also forcing leadership on the people does not work any more
than forcing a religion or a diet or a workout or a political breed belief system
And can you make someone from a from a leadership perspective if you have a 40 over other people
Can you make someone bow down to your program mechanically for a little while?
Now yeah, you can you can but
If it's not from them if they're not part of it
Willfully it's not going to work over time
So you know don't be people up verbally with your leadership lessons
Hmm don't make it your external religion that you are forcing on people internally
Yes, of course, obviously my I always thought about leadership
I always thought about leadership
But I wasn't barking it and I don't I don't even think I don't even think
Like my the best the people that taught me the most about leadership
They never said the word to me about leadership
Right and I'm not saying that that's the best course of action because because sometimes it is good
You know pull someone aside and say hey
This the way you're acting right now in front of your troops and that that's not gonna be effective
Sometimes that is good
Especially once you've built the relationship because if I don't have a relationship with you
I can when I say hey, I need to talk you hey the way you're treating your guys right now
Isn't gonna go over very well with them. What's your reaction gonna be you're gonna be pissed?
Yeah, you think I don't know my guys. I know them better than you and we're gonna have a problem
I did I accomplished nothing my coaching and mentoring of you
Was horrible because we didn't have a relationship
So you're not listening
And obviously of course when I start coaching and mentoring that implies that I'm the greatest leader of all time
That's my that's the thnm
Plied statement you saw come great which people reject that as well especially when you're not that great of a leader in the first place
Hmm
So don't talk about it so much just leave be a good leader open up the discussions
Take a wrap off come from the flank instead of going straight on maneuver
tactically and tactfully get into their heads and make better leaders
By actually
Yeah
Yes, kind of like that lead you know lead by example kind of thing it kind of makes you like the question kind of how you said at the beginning it makes you wonder
He says the question is do you find the people in the military mock those that emphasize the importance of good leadership
You kind of think yourself. I wonder how this person is
emphasize in the importance of good is he the guy at the party who you know
People are talking about I don't know the food or something then he just bust out leadership stuff
You know that guy you know who's like everything on a like the RLTC guy
Yeah, like everything he's just pushing it everything, you know leadership everything
Leadership is everything, we weren't even talking about that leadership is everything kind of thing either way
Work this is coming from a person me that I literally talk about leadership all the time
I think yeah, and I actually think that way and I get up on stage and in companies and in front of military members and police officers
And I talk about leadership that's what I talk about all the time. Yeah
And that's what you know what's interesting that's what makes about face
By Colonel David Hackworth the one of the best things about that book is it's not a leadership book
He doesn't he just talk he barely talks about he barely says a straightforward sentences
That this is how you lead it's all from the flank and that's why it gets you so
Well because it's from the flank
Yeah, it's not a book about leadership doesn't even say like you know
How many books get published all the time?
You know this is a leadership book I wrote a book with life
How to lead and win yeah hackworth did it better hackworth's like oh this is about
Or read it yeah in a way hey, I digley you've seen but obviously that's your job
Well, I guess my point is that if you're if this is coming from someone who talks about leadership all the time
Literally wrote a book about leadership. Yeah, and I'm saying hey you might not want to talk about it
That's my point. Yeah, yeah, that's my point. Yeah good point just just just
Back off a little bit. Yeah, so if you were like you know you go on the road you do one of your you know your deals and then you know at dinner
With your family you start
Going into your leadership stuff with them
That's what you should it do. Yes, yes, but I'm what I'm saying is with your team with your platoon
You don't sit there and say all right today. We're gonna talk about leadership again
Yeah, you don't quote unquote emphasize the importance of good leadership right you
Just lead yeah, yeah, they're smarter than you think there you know what you're into doing
I'll as you're kind of condescending you can't help it you're treating them like they don't know
You want to talk about the importance of leadership. They know what the importance of leadership during the military
Yeah, in fact in example of their reaction of how people take it when you start preaching to them
You know how they take it they mock you
That's a lesson learned you know that's a lesson learned if people are mocking you
They're not taking you seriously
Yeah, that means you're doing something wrong
What you're doing wrong in this case is you're condescendingly talking to them about the importance of leadership
They know what the importance of leadership is yeah
They're in the military they know how bad it is to have a bad platoon sergeant or bad platoon
Platoon commander they know
Don't need to rub it in their face yeah
I remember I think I told you the story about one of my friends not a names name because I'm
Surtin you know you see me, we're at a party and he got he got you and he's
Sitting at the table explaining to all of us how badass navy seals are yeah like for a long time
Two, this is and he even said those words navy seals are just so badass like we're so badass
And this is why and all this stuff and it's the exact same thing because we know navy seals are badass
But you sitting here telling us how badass you and yeah all navy seals are is gonna make us mock you
Yeah, they're gonna get mocks
Yeah, even a little bit
You get mocked a lot
You be mocked by other navy seals by the way for sure doing that stuff
Anyway check well
I'm glad that this guy is asking the question
I'm glad that the guy is focused on leadership and I hope that these points can come across and be digested
with no
You know, they're just really easy to get offended by what I'm saying right if you're amulate
We just doesn't get it, you know, I mean it's really easy to say that yeah, he's as it
Oh, it's easy for him to say he just know what he's talking about
I'm the one that's here. I'm trying to get these guys to be better
You know, I'm trying to get my but to understand the importance of leadership. I know man
I know when I respect that I like the fact that you're have that mindset man. That's awesome. That's awesome
Come from the flank a little bit come from the flank man. You're not gonna you're not gonna
You're not gonna get that get it done this way. Yeah
It's kind of like if you try to convince everyone that you're the most humble person in the world
You know
I'm like nobody more humble than me. Yeah, I'm the most humble. I'm humbleer than that guy
I'm humbleer than you I'm humbleer than anyone who ever lived just the most humble guy in the world
Just doesn't work like that. That's a work there
Next question
Joko how do you lead a team of volunteers
How to punish or discipline them can't threaten to fire them
Because they're all I have I know a leader does so much
More than threatened and punished, but I need some guidance try to motivate but feel the need to do more
Thank try to answer this one quickly once again because this is kind of a question I've answered before in a different form
Do they understand why they're doing what they're doing and do they understand why it's important? Do they understand how?
What they are doing will benefit them?
Do they also see you
Working hard to try and make things happen
So those are those are just the basic questions. Let's just get those out there every time every time someone's not doing what you want them to do
Do they understand why they're doing what they're doing? Do they understand why it's important to the mission and do they understand?
How being successful in the mission will benefit them?
So so let's just get those out of the way next
What can we do here have you gamified the situation at all? How do you like that?
Gamified right have you gamified the situation because I realized that's a term that's getting thrown around now
But we would gamify stupid things all the time in the seal teams to make them fun
Right how much brass can you pick up?
Let's see I'll pick up more than you my squad will pick up more brass and you'll pick up all this
And we're running around the range trying to pick up brass one of the most miserable things that you have to do in the seal teams is pick up brass off the hot range in the summer time
And you do it for for like two days
Because once you get done with all your work you got to go pick up
Millions of rounds of brass spread out all over the desert in in August in the imperial valley
It's hot it sucks, but guess what we're gonna do have a contest
So what are you gonna do to gamify?
Like what kind of cool competition
Around some short term goal. Can you set up that's gonna be?
That's gonna make it fun for them some kind of cool reward
What about some kind of friendly bets
Around achieving something like I bet if I raise this much money
You know I will go to work with a pair of underwear on my head or you have to you know what I mean whatever these stupid bets
You know what we used to do in the teams is we bet one dollar
One of my old running mates
We we we we had something like critical
About you one dollar yeah
That was like the biggest bet you could make yeah because it's just it's pure pride
So you know and then we we'd always have fun if you were collecting or if you're giving the dollar
Collecting the dollar was just totally glorious yeah giving the dollar was shame
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, like you could add like okay when you give me this dollar eight has me in front of everybody
V you have to I don't know you have to do it while like walking in your knees just something to real
Yeah, but we didn't even have to do all that yeah
For you just understand me in my run-and-mate if we won or lost the bet it was like
What a loser, you know and you wouldn't even ask for the money you just look at them
And this bugged mind he had one of the most classic looks when he'd give you the look when I've lose a bet to him
He gave me the look. I I wanted to cry
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, last one more than that. Yeah, last one more
So maybe you make a bet for a dollar and if that's not working okay now that's not working if you can't game a fight if you can't have fun with it
Maybe ask them
while they're why they are there and
and figure out
What their motivation is for being there and how you can tie that into something concrete and
Then also look like you might have some people that aren't really into this and
Then lower your expectations of this particular group of people and gone recruit some people that want to get after it
Makes sense yeah
Have some fun fun goes a long way yeah fun goes a long way having fun doing things goes a long way and
And that praise thing to you know when you said like add like a reward or something for
Because a lot of times especially volunteers were so you know and we all feel this like even at work
You can have like a super fun job, but you'll get you to people generally
Be speaking tend to get complacent in one way or another
You know when things are routine or things are you know not as exciting or whatever
And you know when you're volunteering and that happens it's kind of like you're not tied there by a paycheck really
You know, which is just it's just a powerful tie, you know that people have to work. It's like yeah, I don't like my job
But it's pays bills and paying the bills is a big deal kind of thing
So if you add that element of excitement or fun or you know a little personal payoff in one way or another
I think that helps a lot of the time indeed and that tends to happen to if the if the Lee
I'm not saying this person is doing this or not doing this, but
like if they become kind of complacent and not recognizing how much they they they appreciate the volunteers
You know like if they're just like oh, yeah, this just business is usual, you know
Thanks for coming in that's kind of it kind of thing and they're you know
Then it just gets kind of kind of blog, you know like it doesn't not the payoff that they used to have you know
But if you kind of keep that going, it's keep them in the game
Next question
Do I need to keep training due to if I hate it?
I mean can I just live my life the way I think it should be which is of health energy and become becoming a force of nature
as a doctor without dreaming up of some invisible enemies on the street that I've yet to come across and preparing and spending my
Pitons of wage of a wage on lessons that I hate in every sorts of ways for something that might be avoided
physical clash if I learned to use wit and saving my money to move into a good neighborhood and I've been successful in
Preventing physical clash is to occur. I've learned basic ways to escape the mount I can run. I'm fairly strong isn't that enough?
Okay, so yeah, bro
Do you just who is not the meaning of life?
All right, you just who has a lot of I mean I find you jitsu very enjoyable. I get a lot out of it beyond
Physical training beyond self defense. Yeah, I get a lot out of it and I apply it in all different sorts of realms in my life
But if you hate it and
And you've learned some basic ways to defend yourself to escape the mount maybe some basic guards type stuff
Then then okay, I mean then step away. I mean you shouldn't be going through life doing something that you hate
If I were you I'd still train occasionally even if it's just like once every two or three weeks
Once a month just to keep some of the ideas fresh and also also there's always the possibility that I'll click in your head and you'll realize
There's like a magical thing that you could get out of the jiu-jitsu
And it's kind of like waking up, you know waking up at 430 in the morning
That's what time I wake up and first of all I'm genetically predisposed to sleep less than most people and
And for instance, we just had daylight savings time and
Yeah, and so and I went to bed so I set back my clock and it was it was like 940 at night
So went from 1040 when I was going to bed I set back my clock and now it's 940
Yeah, that's an all-cooling you know all to sleep extra hour
We know it's how my woke up like
And then I I made him bed saying no sleep more sleep more I couldn't do it so I got out of about a 330
But that's that's that's me and and that's that's just me
And
It depends what your schedule is it depends on what your genetic makeup is for sleep and if you work the night shift then obviously
You're working at 430 in the morning or you're getting off at work of work at 430 morning
So this just doesn't work and I
I try and put that caveat on pretty much everything that I say like my workouts
When I eat
Everyone's a little bit different and I like what I like and and I do what I do and it works for me and you can try it
Then if you come up with something that's better
I'll listen to you
And that's the same with your juts your man if you hate it
then you know, maybe it's not for you and and
You know what I what I truly think might my true thought is it beneficial for you?
Yes, it is
Should you stop doing everything that you don't like just because you don't like it? No
I mean there's some things that you should press on should you get it should everyone have a fundamental level of knowledge of jutsu?
It's very very beneficial
But if you hate it and and you've kind of come back conclusion
then don't do it yeah and and I think also
Once you give yourself that out
Once you give yourself the out and you're not forcing yourself to do it anymore
Yeah, it might open up your mind to actually enjoy it and try it and not be miserable about it. Yes. Yeah
That's what actually what I was gonna say. I was like it's but they're probably and I don't know
But easily this some people don't like it straight up. I got I accept that I know I know but
That being said there is a possibility that the environment that
This person or that's people training sometimes will make you not like it and it's not necessarily the jutsu
You don't like sure not it wound up that way you don't like jutsu anymore because you were kind of
Pushed in the wrong direction as far as like what you
You like and don't like so you could try a different school try different try different school
Yeah, like I said earlier today some schools are really strict and rigid and maybe that's
Would be better for you some schools are real wild and there's no control maybe that that would be a better school
Depending on what your personality is
Some people like that regiment and environment. Yeah. Yeah. You could you could definitely try a different school
But again, I think I think the mental hurtled to come over is
You've told yourself that you have to do it and now tell yourself you don't have to do it if you don't want to
But certain in any state try different school
It's the environment that you train in so the school's part of the environment for sure
But it's like training partners. It's like the
Which can lined up as the pressure you put on yourself? It's like everything, you know the whole
Environment so I know that and people are different people told some people they want that pressure
They want people yelling you know like remember I used to tell you like when you start coaching either me
Just in training you know like you'll get fired up when you see two people training or whatever and you'll be like
Do this really and you'll start coaching it's almost like you're like as a friend you're doing it like just for fun and you're like
Okay, do this and you usually coach up the other guy when I'm rolling with him and
That other guy oh he's getting coached by jocco so he turns up the heat and bro
I don't like that because it's now it's like a thing. I know I don't like that at all
But some people do like that so people that get some fired up it gets some more in the game, you know
So I'm saying people are different so
So the possibility is that this guy
Happens to be in the wrong environment for you jitsu for him for you to do for him self. Yeah
Exactly as a possibility and just like I you said
You know he he could very well be putting that pressure on himself like you have to go and everyone
Saying how great it is and it's the best thing and if you don't show up to practice you're black and you're lame or get on the best
You know like if you get told all the time
It's the best thing in the world and then you show up there and you get beat up which is what happens
Yes, and you and now you're like how does everyone like this?
Yeah, this doesn't feel good to me and you just go on a negative mindset right?
Yeah, so you should be careful that and that's not to mention when you even imply that you don't necessarily like it
Oh, yeah, because you suck. Oh, yeah, because you're this or you're weaker
You're whatever you're a slacker like basically all this negativity, you know
It's gonna turn you off even more so now yeah, you hate it now. Yeah, which which there's a reality of it is some some things
Don't agree with some people
Right, that's that's a reality like there's some things in the world
That that I don't I I just don't like them
Like when we were driving to LA you're playing some music. Yeah, some of the music that you're playing is is popular music
I just don't like it. I just don't like it and and
There's other things like that in the world
I'm trying to think of things that I just just like other people like them. Yeah, and I just don't like them. I just don't
Pokemon go
That's one yeah, I mean, I don't I'm never even thought about Pokemon go. It seems like a cool idea
You got you look for things on your phone. I mean, oh, I'm not that's not the type of thing that I'm talking about
You know, I guess dancing at the club
I mean, I don't care about I'm trying to think of something that some
I guess music is the best is one of the best examples
For me is is you know, I hate this certain types of music certain artists
Like life
Late late flex hair late flex hair metal from the nine
The legit likes it and I like legit do not like it and and the reason I use the reason that's a good example
Is because that's not far off from kind of the music that I do like
I mean, I like I like I like Led Zeppelin. I mean, I love Led Zeppelin, right?
Led Zeppelin's awesome and and the step from Led Zeppelin to to to poison
I mean you could you could they could be in the same record category in the store, right?
Rock and roll. Yeah, uh, Led Zeppelin. I love
I
Poison kind of turns my stomach. I hate it and so that's an example of so some things they just don't sit well with you
and and maybe jiu-jitsu doesn't sit well with this guy now
Like I said, I think there's a lot of benefits to it. I think you get it a lot out of it try a different environment
But if you hate it, don't make force yourself to do it open open the escape
Right give yourself an out and that allows you to feel more comfortable because you feel trapped everyone feels like a cornered animal
And now you're just pissed off. Yeah, you if you've been like hey these guys everyone
I hear everyone talking about your jiu-jitsu, so I'm gonna try it. Yeah, and now your first day. You don't like it
But you're like I'm gonna keep doing it because everyone's saying it's great
And you just end up in a bad way. Yeah, so be careful with that one. Yeah, you're gonna trap
Do with it with the junk parts of it. Yeah, that kind of came about and yeah, and you can't really escape it then you're like
Rebelligance it
Yeah, check remember when we were driving up to LA. I was playing carry by Europe that is actually technically at 80s
Hair metal. Yeah, that's an easy for sure, but you're really mad. Yeah, yeah
No, I'm telling you that music doesn't sit well with me for some reason you got a little bit
And I'm going back to life like layflakes Metallica layflakes black Sabbath layflakes tool
He likes rocking bands too yeah for some reason there's some genetic code in his head that poisoned's cool
Yeah, just let's it right in
Mine gets the and hole yeah, but then I guess on the other end of the spectrum you get we get into music that
Life and like like life like Spantara, Panterra is a hard band now. I go one step further than Pantara right in some of the some of the music that I listen to
Which I think leaves life a little bit where he wouldn't listen to some of the harder music that I listen to
But Pantara was you know brushing up against it. Hey, do you listen to soft music?
Come on. What do you consider soft music? That's something about love songs. I don't know so you know
Something soft you know what I'm seeing
I'd say white buffalo white buffalo is hard acoustic music, but you know he's got some pretty melos songs
He got a song called love song number one. What's it about though like is he is it like romantic?
You know, is he talking about? Yeah, he's love. I would say yes a girl or something like that. I would say yes
He kind of does account because you know how like well how can that not count? I don't know because you know how like like
Metallica for example. They have unforgiving right so it sounds softer, but they're still talking about hard stuff
Okay
And then they have like enter San Man which is okay. Well, and I guess I'm just not no my answer to you is no
Like do you like what about Zeppelin but I won't see you're still talking about like these aren't soft things like you know
Okay, so I'll explain algebra remember remember algebra and you're like what the
Yes, you're pissed you're mad at me personally like you
And you're like who is this and no no, you know what though actually I played another song
Ah, who was it?
He was like Josh Radin or something and you were like hey, this is pretty good. I was very surprised. It was a soft song
Okay, do you remember that's well my musical taste are very yeah
Different types of music. Yeah, so I guess sometimes types of music that I don't like yeah
I sometimes wonder with you like if you're the kind you know how some people they they just just I like music
Not I'm not saying me. I'm just saying certain people they are into just a specific type of music
That's it that's the whole reason for music in their head is like this very specific feeling like some people
That I know before they they only like house music they aren't like anything other than house music
Yeah, it's like it's just they old brother listen to nothing
So I was wondering if you were like kind of that kind of where because I was in all different kinds of music
Well least just not
Maybe not all different yeah, no, okay, you're right. I listened to a wide range of various types sure
There you go
Not elder or although I forget the song, but you was you can refer back to it later
Other time cool
All right next question how about that
Kind of feel bad for the guy who hates do you get to that's kind of crazy. Yeah, it's a bummer
But it's it's not that rare. Yeah, makes sense. It totally makes it and I was actually talking with you know Dave came around sure
I know who that is yeah, well
I was up with him up in San Francisco area yesterday and
We were talking about how some people don't like jiu-jitsu
Yeah, and you'd think even people that are you would think would like jiu-jitsu
People that have jobs that
Jiu-jitsu would be really beneficial for them to know yeah, they don't like jiu-jitsu and and so and I was saying that
I've introduced a lot of people to jiu-jitsu a lot of people to jiu-jitsu
Not many of them have actually stuck with it for a long period of time yeah, but and and so
It's not that rare
For people to not like jiu-jitsu. Yeah, and I I dig it's like not sticking with it because jiu-jitsu takes work
It's not like the easy thing that they provide just someone oh your size difference between not like in jiu-jitsu and not actually sticking with it
Yes, so this guy straight up. I hate it. Yeah, yeah, that's something that's a little bit more powerful
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like definitely doesn't like people don't stick with it for the most part
This is just a total guess on my point. Yeah, lazy and like discipline. Yeah, like they're they just they
They don't like it enough on in on a kind of moment to moment basis to get off the couch and go
That's kind of it. No, it's one of those situations
Next question
Jockel I have a question after reading your book which I thought was one of the best books. I've read since your last book
Nice
I'm curious what what you did during your sealed team days to maintain your your schedule
As I would imagine in the teams your schedule changes at any minute to include you being deployed or active during your various missions at night
So as in life how do you keep your balance of your schedule when do you call in your book?
You say
Keep your schedule but how did you work through this when you
Would be on a mission that didn't allow you to sleep at night?
Did you still did you still the following day upon return maintain your normal schedule
Appreciate your time and response okay
Yeah, obviously the teams your schedule and the teams can vary a lot and you have to adopt to what makes sense and
Sometimes in the teams you're working 18 20 hour days sometimes out in the field you're going to the field for two three four five days at a time
Sometimes
You're working for 24 hours a day or you work for 36 hours straight because you do planning in the bubble
Was so that could be wrong with sometimes you're doing dives
You're doing two dives a day and
That takes a bunch of time and it takes a toll on you. It's hard work. I guess you could say
Sometimes we're running around all day or all night
Running around the desert running around the urban training facility and
So the schedule's changing all the time and it's the same thing with business the same thing with business
Right now I travel and the flight leaves early the flight leaves late or the work all day
Are they dinner with the clients or the interview with a writing or the the recording of the podcast or the changing time zones and things just change
And so what what I do is yes, I try and I try and keep the schedules much as I can and if I fall off the schedule for whatever reason
I get back on it as quickly as possible and
I think so so yes, you do the best you can. I think the main thing you have to watch out for is letting
Letting a change in schedule
Or a problem in your schedule
Being excuse to fall off the path, right that's what you have to watch out for
You know we think oh I'm in a new time zone or I've got jet lag or I didn't sleep well
Or I need rest from traveling or I did this the other night and so I'm gonna sleep until 930 tomorrow morning and just call it good
That's what you have to watch out for now sometimes you need to work to 9th these sleep till 930 yeah
Sometimes you do sometimes you stay up for 36 hours you go to bed at three o'clock in the morning
Guess what you might need to sleep until 930 that's cool good do it get some sleep
But just be careful of
Using it as an excuse
To go way off the path and just get yourself back on the path as soon as possible
Makes sense yes, sir
Yeah, that's all me right there like one little thing on my schedule throws up on this whole day is gone. I'll do tomorrow
He's got a careful net
Speaking of schedule
I think we're about good for questions. There's one more thing that I wanted to close out with and you know
I get a lot of I get a lot of really a great
emails I got a lot of great
Messages through social media
Letters written letters get all those kinds of things and I appreciate them all
I don't always respond to all them because I physically cannot do it and you know of course
You know oh get someone to manage your social media or whatever not doing that
If you hear back from me you hear from me not from somebody that I paid
$10 an hour to respond to my stuff and say cool get after it like no
Not doing that but
You know I get all these things and I do read them so if you send it I read it and so I appreciate the feedback and everything
I got one though that I that was good. I wanted to
Actually wanted to read on here because I felt that it not only
Said hey thanks for you know
The podcast or whatever and thanks for the books whatever it actually gave some pretty good methodology and really an insight into a
mindset that I think will help people
Doing what they're doing so
Here we go Mr. Willink just wanted to share a quick story with you
At 39 I had fallen into a 15-year rut of undisciplined alcoholism
I was soft and heavy and wanted to change
Earlier this year I had started working out three to four times a week in my basement
I was trying and failing to get a handle on my alcohol abuse and every failure made the beast seem bigger and unbeatable
It was like I didn't have control over my body
I
Finished your book on a Monday night and decided that I would get up early the next morning and work out
I got up and worked out
Not much but I just wanted to do something
Sit-ups pushups 15 minutes on the bike
Worked out twice Tuesday
Got up Wednesday and did it again
Got to Thursday night a normal drinking night and decided to try not drinking
Made it through
Friday same thing worked out morning and night stayed busy and stayed away from the drink
Falled I should try and push it through the weekend
Worked out Saturday morning
Took the rest of the weekend often stayed dry
Monday morning I got up and started two days again
Made it through the week with 11 workouts
By the second week I felt better than I had in my entire life
I was astounded that normal people walked around feeling this good
I guess not
systematically poisoning your body will do that
On the fifth week I got a project at work that was going to require traveling for the next eight weeks
I was worried about overcoming my triggers and road habits
But normal traveling evening was dinner watch cable and drink eight beers
To my surprise the hotel at a sweet gym cool. I'll just keep doing what I'm doing
Then at the site I found out that we would start work at 6 a.m
Damn that means I have to get up at four to work out
On 12 weeks into my traveling two a days usually getting 11 to 12 workouts a week
They recently moved our start time to 7 a.m. so now I get an hour and a half in the morning and evening
I'm 16 weeks clean
Drop 30 pounds or more haven't been on a scale in three weeks
34 waste jeans hang off of me
My sit up and push-up sets went from 10 to 40 to 50
Kettabel swings went from 35 by 10 to 50 by 15
I started to learn how to run as I haven't done it in 20 years
Now after a day off I can do two miles without stopping
I do four to five miles on the treadmill and nine miles on the bike besides the sit-ups push-ups
Kettelbells core and weights
I look forward to next year's competitive shooting season. I'm going to bring it
At this point my cravings are gone and I actually recoil from the smell of booze
When I started this I thought it would be temporary
Now it's going to be permanent no reason to waste time with it anymore
Now when I question something your voice comes to me with the hard answer
It's only black and white with no gray area
One day when I'm standing before the lured lord and here is voice if it doesn't sound like yours I might be disappointed
The book I read those months ago was the way of the warrior kid
I'm working on extreme ownership now
Thank you for your service. Thank you for producing a badass podcast
Thank you for influencing my life
So
There you go
And I say this to people all the time
Most important here is it isn't me
It's you and
Sure you may have grabbed some little foot hold from the podcast or from one of the books
But it isn't me that changes you it's you
You
You set the small goals you achieve those goals then set some more and achieve those and set some more goals
Maybe a little bit bigger, but not that much bigger
You pay attention to the progress this guy is 16 weeks deep
30 pounds lighter
Working harder stronger faster more efficient competitive
The individual that wrote that is getting after it and changing his life and you can too
Just start
start
small
Start with changing tomorrow morning just tomorrow morning
Get that square to away
And then move on to the next day and the next and move your life to a better place
one little step
One little victory at a time
Appreciate the letter and I think that's all I've got for tonight
So echo speaking of people getting
Better stronger and faster
And actually supporting the podcast if they want to do that sure do you have any suggestions for us sure of course
I do
I can talk about the fact that origin has a new key coming out
Good on
I don't know that the name of the you know keys have names
You know like the origin does yeah, yeah, you know
That's a cool name do by the vaccine, but this one is called I think
Discipline I think it's called discipline. I think it might be called discipline. Yeah
Not the discipline. This is just this discipline. I could be called that sure you could check it out origin main dot com right yeah
surprisingly
aesthetically
Great
I would say it's I would say it's probably
Is the term they use like on brand on brand meaning it kind of fits fits your brand okay sure
It does that yeah, yeah, yeah, it totally does it um
It's like yeah, it's not the kind where you know like some keys like
You look at them you can tell there's like all these bells and whistles as far as decorations go
You know, yeah, it's a good word decorations. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, so but he's looking for decorations
Here's the thing though. There are some there are some uh how should I say functional
Decorations and now that's not actually a good word for it anyway. It looks cool put it that way it looks cool
You know basically
Kind of lighter weight one
For functionality but awesome nonetheless look at it. I got a way one
I know you got the black one
How do you know I don't have both yeah, I'm sure you do have both and I'm still working on the black one but that's a long story
nonetheless it's a good one and
Like back when we first started everyone would ask and I don't want to say everyone but a lot of people
You know, I don't like I
Don't say that yeah a lot of people
I say some people some people some people but the thing is a lot of people though it's like a lot of people
What do you should I get making the disclaimer it was a lot of people wasn't kind like oh, you know my little brother has me once and then as me again
It was it's a lot of people
Maybe
two times a week
Two times a week for two years by the way that's a lot of people
Asking the same exact question anyway. They asked like oh what kind of geese should I get it?
Whatever now there's like yeah origin geese and then now I'm saying get this one. This is the one straight up
Yeah, I don't know then all where any other key. I'm not saying I won't I'm just saying I don't know that I yeah and actually I don't know if you know this
Did you know that they're gonna sell this key and
a certain number of them 400
You're gonna get a copy of this one equals freedom field manual. Oh, then yeah signed
I sign them off
So if you want to sign copy you know that gean. Yeah, it'd be cool. It's like a little little
little bonus yeah little discipline package. Yeah, if you're an opinion you get to what do you do
Selling you hang it up again hopefully you don't hate jiu-jitsu like that one question today
Yeah, hopefully you love jiu-jitsu most likely you'll love jiu-jitsu
Good yeah, hopefully yeah if you're getting the discipline equals freedom geese is it this one equals freedom geese or just
I just be all the deaf geey. I don't know deaf geey. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. This one equals freedom
It's good. It's embroidered as the American me. Yeah, and it is made in America like all the word and stuff
Yes, yeah, that's a good one. You know what look at that one get down one if you're still looking for a geey get down
Yeah, even if you're not looking for a geey just look at this brand and pick worth
E he he said on Twitter he's gonna get the geey even though he's not training jiu-jitsu
And then actually I have I didn't respond to brand and but I'll respond right now get the geey and
Train jiu-jitsu yeah
It's the kind where he's gonna he's gonna by the way
Yeah, he's gonna get the geey it's like he but then train jiu-jitsu dude. He's gonna come on
I get that's my bet. I would
I almost am challenging him to prove me wrong. That's how my journey went and proved to everyone that he could do a hundred
Burpees in ten minutes. Yeah, he's challenged for him. It's hard for him. Yeah, but he did it
Yeah, and that was his original challenge. I'm gonna sit on the mat. Yeah
He's gonna you can't just get the geey when you put it on and this goes for pretty much any like legitimate geey when you put it on your
You want to
All right, and this is true like you're like we we didn't mean like a data happens all the time when you had you put on the geey
Just don't you and when you grab it you're like all the time
You know kind of thing yeah, same thing with the sun
Same exacting yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
The last yeah, so it comes from origin if you didn't already picked that part up origin main dot com
There's a lot of geyslons there even if you want to get a another one other than the you don't want to do
I have all the patches that you know how like like knock a no-one in and you know
They'll give you like their police patches stuff like that. I'm gonna have all of them on Mickey all of them
How many do you have
About 12 okay, because I have like 90
I've got so many awesome patches from fire departments police departments military units all over the country foreign
Yeah, I got a lot of stuff that would be a biggie
Yeah, you got to put them on multiple geys if you got the black ant noise. Yeah, well, it wasn't ever from
A lot of patches bro. Yeah, yeah, and there's certain places you can't really put them to so that even limits you more
But I'm doing it. I'm starting it and if I run out of space I'm getting another geid boom
I'm gonna keep it going
I do kind of risk people saying hey you're not law enforcement. Why are you wearing that patch like some of those patches to me seem like you like you can be a NASA one
Like that's yeah, do shoot should I even wearing this patch? Yeah, we got we got friends at NASA
I'm gonna wear it. I was hit this is from my friends at NASA
Yeah, great up
Anyway, you know, I back to origin origin. That's all American made stuff from look cotton out of the ground American
To the factory American factory in America in America in Maine
Mm-hmm make the material make the clothing make the geys make the rash guards
Make the one else to there some bags and yeah, yeah Jim bags and whatnot accessories. I believe they're called accessories
Yeah, they're like beanies and these shirts all made in America. Yeah, I think when I told Jordan Peterson that I think he liked it
Even though he's not American yeah, yeah, yeah, and the supplements
Yeah
From origin labs yeah those are jocquoise supplements so
Here's the thing I'm gonna I'll go into the details later, but superkrill there is a legitimate difference between superkrill in regular krill oil
There is and it's very beneficial. I'm not gonna say right now, but just no superkrill oil
Jocquill brand joint warfare
Jocquill brand for your joints supplements boom jocquill came out with it. That's the stuff
From the beginning that was the main supplements, you know joint stuff krill oil
You're the number one reason not even the number the only reason I started taking it and I'm kind of mad
I didn't take it before yeah, you were behind yeah, and now you got your own one which is even better
Yeah, it's super as a matter of fact. Yeah, but it's not just a name and I'll just enjoy it. We're fair the joint warfare as a
Let's imagine getting sure in my opinion sure and and in my shoulders opinion yeah left shoulder
Both of my shoulders my back and my elbows so yeah, or do me that calm that's the place to go also
Some legitimate fitness gear everyone knows I'm into kettle bells now
I
Get mine from on it. They're the cool one straight up. That's it. I
Don't think I
Could go back to regular kettle bells. It's my opinion
Got the where we've got the big foot 90 pounds two pounds heavier than jocquill's heaviest kettle bell
Every rep. I think Jordan Peterson was impressed with that too, by the way. Yeah, he was
That makes one of us
Also, oh, sorry on it.com slash jockel. That's the one
That's a good spot. You know also good way to support when you buy books that jocquery views
I guess technically I kind of help review
In a real kind of discharacter yes indirect
Distant way anyway those books very compelling books
When you get them go through the website jocquipotcast.com
Little tab on the top says books from podcast go through there by the books through there
That's a good way to support take it out on this on shop in just the way, you know
Prime one day shipping whatever you choose just like anything else
But go through that's a good way to support and do any other shopping you have to do
Carry on good way to support also subscribe to the podcast on iTunes stitcher Google play depending on what kind of
Platform you prefer or is available to you?
Because iPhone I think doesn't have stitcher, right?
No my iPhone has stitcher. Oh wait no Android doesn't have
iOS. I don't know apple. Yeah, I don't think you could listen to it. I don't maybe
I don't know either. I don't know but you can get it, man. Yeah
The podcast is out there you can subscribe to it the point is subscribe to it. Yes. Yes subscribe to it on that one
It's a good leave review if you want if you're in the mood leave review also subscribe to it on YouTube
The video version of this podcast. Yeah, but one still and I still do get the the whole thing like oh echo
You don't look like you sound and
I remember changing the way you talk yeah, yeah
Or change the way I look
You know get skinny yeah
Get less jacked that is
It is kind of an intuitive a YouTube comments like one out of every 20 YouTube comments is
Echo's jacked
Yeah, that's funny. It kind of is because you wouldn't think that you could determine what someone looks like by what they sound like but it feels like you can
I think a lot of times you can
I don't know though actually now that you think about like talk show hosts on radios. Yeah, you don't know what yeah
It's okay. I guess it's uh it's it's harder to do than you think yeah it feels like you can
Yeah, you can like if someone has like a I don't know like a deep voice you think they're huge or something
You know like something like that not necessarily true. Yeah not true at all remember that sign filled one
No, they're the guys like
She I think Elaine is the girl in their youth like she's like oh he had a a good looking voice or something like he sounded like he was good looking or something like that
How to turn out
I forget I think you were telling that story you need to remember it. Yeah the analogy I didn't remember it
But it reminded me of that nonetheless
Anyway
YouTube subscribe to YouTube that's the point there regardless of if you want to know what I look like or not
Doesn't even matter what I look like really
Barely maybe a little bit I guess maybe I sit because if I see you out in the wild
It'll you know we can recognize each other if you know what I look like that
There's times when people recognize you and you'll like say oh yeah this is echo Charles
Yeah, tell on their face. They're like oh, are you sure that this is echo?
Yeah, I kind of think I've encountered that
For real like I know
Sure just listen that's cool. I dig it. Yeah, but if you want to avoid that kind of situation
Subscribe to YouTube
Good way to do it and good way to support also
Jacoa's a store
It's called jaco store
Jaco store.com. We have t-shirts on there if you want these t-shirts
I'm wearing my good t-shirt right now. I haven't worn this on the original
It's like I
High quality
Layers too by the way the good is backwards
To look at in the mirror that message is for you
If you think about the whole message of good, I mean, I know you said it you know you're like good kind of thing
But you were kind of like you guys had the the luxury of you being there to be able to explain it
If someone's going through like something hard it's
You can't just automatically just say good it kind of comes off kind of weird
Yeah, potentially
That's why I put this backwards because it's like you tell yourself good. You seem saying that's the layer
That's the little inside to the layer. I'm not gonna go deep and I'm not gonna go into any of the other explanations for the other layers
But just know that they have layers on all the clothing on jaco store.com
Check it out. I'm not saying to buy something. I'm saying go on there look on there if you like something
Get something good way to support this away and stuff on there
T-shirts like I said some patches
Rashcards for jitsu or anything physical cycling anything requiring range of motion
Maybe some compression situations
High aesthetic value, but not too high because it's more about functionality
That's my take on all do but they do look good and they have layers
Who do you are in?
Being shipped out right now. They're in heavy. Do you have one no? No. I'm sorry
Well, we aren't California so yeah, but it's not that big of a deal
You got your old one. It's all good. Oh, but yeah. There's some hoodies on there. Uh some warrior kids
Rashcards are coming
Boom because people have been asking me about that because I wore one that was like a test one and they wore one while streamed deep
Deeper and they're like all warrior kid Rashcards, you know whatever
But I was trying to narrow down kind of the colors and stuff, but they're narrowed down and they should be available within the next
We can out where those made those are made all in America
All in America warrior kid Rashcards also there's another kind of cool fun one, but I want to talk about that one till later
Also
Good way to support yourself psychological warfare if you didn't know what that is it's an album with tracks
Jockel tracks and there are two aid you in the event of you needing aid
in your campaigning and sweetness on your path on the path
Okay, so here's the thing about the path. It's not always gonna be easy
You don't see I know what you're saying yeah every day man this is not a one day gig
This isn't every day
Every day is a Monday yeah on the path
Here's I will say this though. Okay, so and you you read the letter for the guy with drinking
I could I could relate to that deeply deeply could relate to that and
In a way and I don't go to deep into it, but in a way the my situation was
In a way harder because the drinking wasn't preventing me from working out
It wasn't preventing me from doing like a lot of stuff. It was only preventing me from doing like a handful of things
But those things I really
Wanted to do, but it was really preventing me or it was put it this way. It was making it super difficult
And then just a fact of like drinking every single day, you know kind of thing and
The more you do you know how you the more you get in the routine it on some with something the harder
The harder it is to just straight up break that routine especially when it provides the payoff is like drinking does chemically
I mean you're like when you drink it the instantaneously yeah
Exactly right along to a payoff no long-term pay off negative like not even proportionately
More beneficial to to to to stop drinking like you know when he said
Wow, this is how everyday people walk around
Yeah, yeah, that's really and really and I felt that
Statement great that's so true. That's exactly what I thought I'm saying no one did trick in these feet
Chocolate doesn't drink right so no one did chocolate's doing all this stuff. I could I could do all that stuff
That's how you feel I'm not saying I'm doing all this stuff
I'm just saying that's the feeling so I could I could dig it anyway
Point is when you're on this path it's not always easy
But psychological warfare is there to get you through those difficult parts parts that you admit
Or that you can admit that you need maybe a little little push little help little spot
We can up early procrastinating that's a big one
Skipping the workout that kind of stuff psychological warfare, okay, so there's a track for every little weakness you might encounter
Skipping the diet or or or slacking on the diet. That's a good one
But yeah check that one out and you know see what up could we just support yourself in your on the path when you're on the path and
What the podcast as well also you can get some jocco white tea which tastes like victory and we'll make you feel really good
You get that on Amazon the books way the warrior kid number one which we just covered obviously
It is not just a book for kids. Yeah Uncle Jake has something to teach all of us myself included
It's for adults and teenagers and anyone else that wants to
Have a better life can I add something about where the work you yeah, which and I I'm on a cycle
I just read it over and over again like I just like a routine
Your child or yeah, she's for an asshole. She can't quite read yet
But there's little things in there that it's like
This is really good that these kids are getting this this message because it's stuff that as an adult you're like dang
I never really even though you know it like okay, and this is what it is
When you're like how do you expect to be good at something if you don't practice
Like little kids don't know that they don't they straight up don't yeah and you got it practice
I feel like we kind of forget that no way no, we absolutely do yeah
So yeah, it's for sure there's a lot in that book and and sometimes I read that book and I and there's even more in there
Then I even recognized you know it in because I the lessons that are coming out of my head
They're so important they're like beyond my own comprehension. Yeah, and I was just explaining the book way the warrior kid two
Which is gonna come out and I was I was just talking through a with a guy yesterday like what what it's about
And as I'm explaining everything that it's about
It's a lot of stuff and it's a lot of really important lessons
But yeah, it starts with way the warrior kid the second warrior kid book will be out April 28th
Actually speaking of books there is extreme ownership a new edition a
New edition is out. It's not a totally new book. It's a new edition of it. It's gonna be available November 21st
You can get it for pre-order right now on Amazon if you want it
It's got a new forward in it so so later I wrote a new forward
It has some color pictures in it
Also the new cover is black we changed the cover from white to black. Why?
Because black
Yes, because it looks cooler. Way cooler also and this is interesting. There's a new Q and A section in the back of the book
That is actually from this podcast
So I kind of rounded up the most prominent leadership questions that that that we've answered on this podcast and wrote them up and kind of ed
How to edit them a little bit to make sure that they made sense without without everything we talked about today without the tone and
And the the pacing of what's being said
excited edit them a little bit but that they're there
What the answers were given on this podcast and they're all from everyone's questions
So everyone
Appreciate the questions everyone that listens to podcast you help us write this next section of this book echo Charles is in it as the question
Ask her so echo Charles is in the book and a hold it up if you're on YouTube
There's the new book right there boom this or sorry extreme ownership
Available November 21st
Also you can get the book discipline equals freedom field manual
It's a manual for getting after it so if you want to get after it get get the field manual
Discipline equals freedom
Fauts and actions they're both in there. It's been great again getting great feedback. I appreciate everyone's feedback
It's pretty straightforward book no fluff involved not not making you read a bunch of
Words to get to my point here's my point
You can get it anywhere that they that they sell books including
Obviously Amazon Barnes and nobody you can get it at Walmart by the way target the publisher ship that out to everywhere
So you can pick it up. It's a good book to give to people in my opinion
It's it's it's not just like giving someone a book you're giving them something a little bit more than a book
Yeah, it's like something a little bit more than a book. It's I don't know if I can't I can't explain it too well right now
Look at it. Yeah, you can look at it. It's it's not normal. I would say it's not normal
Um, if you want the audio version of that book which a lot of people have been asking about
The audio version is available. It is not on audible and it is not going to be unautable
it is
Made and we put it together echo directed and produced
The album that also has tracks so it's an album with tracks and
It's available as MP3 anywhere that you can get
MP3 tracks for sale iTunes Amazon music music Google play wherever whatever
MP3 platform you utilize you can find it there and if you like the leadership principles that we talk about on this podcast and you want to get them for your team or your business
We have a leadership and management consulting company. It's called echelon front
It's me. It's life babbin. It's JP D'Nell. It's Dave Burke. You can email info at echelonfront.com
Or you can check out the website echelonfront.com and if you have more questions
Or you have answers to the questions that we covered that are better than the answers that we gave today and you want to share them with us that be cool
I want to learn you can find us we're actually on the interwebs
on Twitter on Instagram
on dash facie
boh
Echoes at echel Charles and I am at jockelwillink and
To close out. I want to say thanks to our military that's out there on the front lines. I recently got reports of ISIS in Iraq
sending kids to
To surrender to coalition forces, but they've been laden with suicide
bombs and rigged to blow up and as these kids would approach the areas
set aside for surrender
to American forces they would the Americans would see the terror in their eyes and realize that there was something wrong and American
military men
Especially explosive ordinance disposal technicians would risk their lives
time and time again to go disarm these bombs
risking their lives so that these young children can live
who who even does that
I'll tell you who America's service men and women
They are the finest and we thank them for their service and sacrifice and to police and law enforcement
firefighters, paramedics, other first responders
Thank you for doing your job extremely difficult
Often thankless
Keeping us safe here on the home front and to everyone else that is listening
Remember this if there's something in your life that you want to change then change it
You have control and if you don't think you have control then take
control
Get a grip on your life
and start getting after it
So until next time this is echo and jacco out